Today, consumers are more connected than ever. Even inter-continental barriers have broken down. 
A consumer in the US can easily purchase from China, eg Ali Express if he finds a better value. 
The cost for switching brands is very low. 
The companies need to find better strategies to acquire, and more importantly, retain consumers.

What is Consumer/Customer Analytics?

According to SAS Enterprise,

Customer analytics refers to the processes and technologies that give organizations the customer insight necessary to deliver 
offers that are anticipated, relevant and timely.

Some types of Consumer Analytics

Propensity Analysis — Prediction of consumer behavior based on his activities. Which activities are strongly related to 
final purchase decision? Is the customer just window shopping? At what point should we initiate contact or offer deals to 
maximize purchase decision. Propensity analytics aims to stay ahead of the curve to offer the consumer the personalisation 
at the right moment to facilitate his purchase and improve experience.

Customer Segmentation — Customers come in different categories. For example, a senior tech executive will probably purchase 
a high end laptop, a college student will probably purchase a budget student laptop. It is essential for us to segment customers, 
to ensure we can offer them most relevant deals. It will also help us reduce marketing dollars spent, 
if we are successful in better targeting our customers.

Customer Churn Analysis — Customer churn is the customer attrition rate of a company. Any company needs customers to be successful. 
At any moment, customers are entering and leaving the company. It’s like a bucket with a leak. 
To have a successful company, our attrition rate should be lower than customer acquisition rate. 
To patch our leaky bucket, we deploy predictive techniques to prevent attrition at the right moment by detecting 
the trends which lead to churn.

Up-Selling and Cross-Selling — Let’s assume that a customer purchases a laptop. He will probably need spare batteries, 
charging stations and a warranty. This can be an example of up-selling. Now, let’s assume the customer bought the laptop, 
which is top of the line. Now, that might suggest that the customer is probably tech-savvy and might purchase similar high-end 
electronics goods. This is an example of cross-selling. In brief, we must use our analytics to best understand our customers.

The top answers that Customer Analytics wants to answer are Acquisition, Revenue, Retention, Engagement.

Customer acquisition refers to gaining new customers. It is usually more expensive than maintaining old customers. 
Analytics can help us reduce the acquisition cost by improved targeting.

We might be interested to know which revenue channel is the most profitable and direct our campaigns based on that information. 
We will be interested to know which customer will be more profitable compared to others and how can we better engage their needs.

We would be willing to learn at what points are we most likely to lose customers and for what reasons. 
We can use that information to improve customer retention.

We would be interested in finding out which features intrigue our customers the best. 
Positive customer engagement is usually linked to less customer churn.

Customer Lifetime Value is the net profit attributed to the entire future relationship with a customer. 
We are interested in predicting the correct Customer Lifetime Value and act on the insights.

In conclusion, we can say that the Customer Analytics stands in the cross roads of Statistics, Machine Learning, 
Data interpretation, Pattern recognition with the final target of improving the user experience and the needs of the business.

(https://medium.com/@arindambaisya/consumer-analytics-an-overview-5bf59ca9628)
